to get public you have to have it all
you need a great story team growth and
efficiency End Market predictability and
a great business reason to do it it's
very hard work it takes at least a year
before you even say you want to go IPO
if you can to do it it's an inordinate
amount of
work and only 20 SAS companies per year
can actually make it public we don't
think this number is going to go higher
than this anytime soon and so you need
to ask yourself why why do Public Market
investors have to own my stock there's
100 plus other great SAS companies that
are already public you need to have a
compelling story as to why they're going
to buy your stock over someone else's
good to see everyone today thank you so
much for being here I'm Alex Clayton
this is my partner Kathy Troy and we're
going to talk to you about the road to
IPO the road to IPO by meritech we are a
late stage Venture and growth firm we've
been around for 25 years and have had
about 60 IPOs in our history we also do
a lot of content around the public
markets and want to use this time to
walk through that today so to start the
road IPO a lot of software assass
companies are asking their board and
themselves the question when can I IPO
and how big do I need to be the
following presentation puts the size
performance qualitative factors and post
IPO performance into context and what it
means for the future today we're going
to address a few questions what matters
both qualitatively and quantitatively ly
how recent SAS IPO metrics have trended
over time what does it take today and
how do you maintain success post IPO
which is just as as important as getting
there here's again what we'll be walking
you through today we'll start with
section two which are the qualitative
factors to go
public so what are those going IPO is a
well trodden path I'm sure many people
here many of the companies here that
have been at saster in the past have
gone public it's a very well trodden
Road there's been over 200 of them since
2012 we put the logos on the screen
there are so many that you can't even
see them all this is a something that's
happened before and again a very well
trodden Road and we're going to tell you
more about that today and apart from the
Zer time frame zero interest rate policy
there's only been about 20 of them for
year there aren't 100 sasid poos a year
and if you look at this you can see that
the number of them has actually while in
2021 it grew dramatically it's only been
about 20 per year and the key
considerations you need a clear story
can you get your grandmother excited
about your IPO I that is actually a
serious question that CEOs and their
boards need to ask are you a market
leader can you become a multiproduct
platform and are there proof points to
support your vision you also need to be
growing quickly you need to have some
reasonable scale and strong efficiency
is your growth rate durable what's the
path to profitability you you have
favorable unit economics and can you
sustain them as you get bigger these are
all very important questions you also
need operational excellence you need to
have excellent offense which is thing
things like product and Engineering
sales marketing Comm success and defense
strategic Finance fpna compliance legal
people all of those things you also need
to be predictable can you consistently
beat and raise every quarter you're
going to be telling the street about
your results You' got a beaten raise on
both the top and bottom lines roughly
about 80% of public SAS companies beat
Wall Street guidance on acc quarterly
basis not not on annual basis but four
times a year that is not easy you also
need a valid business reason to go
public this can include things like
Capital to support growth m&a validation
for your Enterprise accounts and IPO in
many ways is a coming out party
marketing for customers hiring and also
liquidity for shareholders in investors
and employees so those were some of the
qualitative factors now we're going to
walk you through the metrics that matter
uh for an IPO over time thank you Kathy
thanks Alex so at meritech we track core
metrics for most public class companies
and so we'll take a look today at some
of those historical metrics at IPO for
companies at public between 2009 through
today first we see that on average it
takes companies about 10 years from
founding to
IPO here we have the average years IPO
hovering around that 10e Mark over this
15year period now the road IPO may seem
quite long but it's a process allows
companies to mature and build scale so
they're successful many years beyond the
IPO and one of the key changes that
we've seen is the scale of the business
at IPO in terms of Topline here we have
the average AR scale of companies at IPO
quarter and you'll see the tremendous
increase from 2009 2010 where companies
were going public between 50 to 100
million of AR and in today's markets
more recently companies are in well over
300 400 and 500 million of a and we
expect this trend to continue slowly up
into the right next we'll take a look at
AR growth year-over-year
and as AR scale has risen the AR
year-over-year growth has remained
around this 40 to 60% year-over-year
range over the same period of time with
the exception of 2024 but we expect that
this trend will come back up to the
median SL average l in the coming years
as well next we have n tension which is
one of the key metrics that we track for
reported n tension and this is a
critical metric for SAS companies as it
tells you how well they're able to
retain and expand their customer base
their existant customer base over
time and here we'll see that the average
on retention has gone up slightly but
has remained around this 110 to 120%
range which is quite an impressive
number so as companies scale we also see
that cash bur tends to increase larger
companies tend to require a bit more
Capital to fuel their growth and so it's
not uncommon to see companies burning
hundreds of millions of dollars before
deciding to go
public and now maintaining this burn
efficiently is critical especially as
companies begin to approach the IPO
stage now a little bit on profitability
we see that free cash flow is becoming
more important in this post deserve era
here we have the average last 12 months
free cash margins for companies at IPO
quarter and you'll see that after this
middle section where free cash margins
are in the negatives there's an
infection point in the last two years
that went into the positives and we see
that investors are increasingly looking
for companies that can maintain both
strong growth but also start generating
cash flow or at least see a path to it
next we have the average rule of 40
which is defined as the error growth
year-over-year plus last 12 months Rec
casual margin at IPO quarter and this is
also a pretty important metric for sze
companies companies need to be able to
balance that growth and also free cash
FL margin or preal generation and here
you'll see that this metric has not
Fallen below 30% on average over the
past 15 years next we'll spend a bit of
time talking about valuations and
multiples at IPO pricing here you see
that the average market cap at IPO has
also risen dramatically over the past 15
years in 2009 and early 2010s companies
were going public uh low hundreds of
millions um of market cap value and in
today's markets companies are well over
in the billions and we expect this trend
to continue now as we've seen ER scale
increase and market caps increase at IPO
we see that the multiples are still in
line with historical
averages and so here we have the average
AR multiple at
IO and you'll see that companies are
trading between this 7 times to 10 11
times range with the exception of 2020
and
2021 and this is also important to note
because irrespective of what private
markets are Bing you at today public
markets are still likely to Value you in
this 7 to 11 times range great so we'll
take a look at a handful of companies of
software companies that I peed in this
post Zer ERA last year and this
year we won't go through every single
number on the page but we'll start with
PLO CIO is a leading Market automation
company and they went public in
September last year with a mark of $7.6
billion do they are around 700 million
of ARR and are trading today in at 10
times AR multiple and one thing that's
unique about t is that they actually
only burn $16 million before going
public let's compare that with rubric
this is a data management and security
software platform went public in April
with a mark cap of $5.6 billion they
were around 800 million of a and are now
trading at seven times a multiple and
you'll notice that difference hash burn
where rubric fed well over $700 million
before growing public lastly we have one
stream of financial operation software
platform that fell on public 2 months
ago and a work cap of $4.6 billion there
are around 500 million of ARR and are
now trading at 11 times and so even
across these three we see quite a
variety in financial profile in terms of
error size growths and profit
profitability margins but we see that
they're all trading in the 7 to 11 times
range that we just talked about thank
you Kathy we walked you through a bunch
of metrics of where you need to be where
things have Tred in the past what does
it take today we used our best judgment
to inform you on where we think
companies will be in the future we took
a look at all 28 plus IPOs there were
many dozens of them we looked at the
medians and the top four tile there are
a lot of numbers on this slide we're not
going to go through all of them but a
top four forti company since 2018 was
over 400 million of AR grown in almost
60% worth about $7.5 billion and as you
can see had very strong metrics and
still took about 10 years for them to
get there so what do we think you need
to be at today and Beyond this is what
we believe today we think that you need
to be at least 400 million of AR you
have to be growing at least 30% a
year you're probably going to be worth3
to5 billion dollar and trade anywhere
from that 8 to 12x range you need to
have strong sasc gross margins you don't
need to be making money companies can be
unprofitable and can be burning you
don't need to be free Casal positive but
you need a path to get there and the
street has to believe you also need to
have strong that dollar retention and of
course uh Vern as little money as
possible even though as Kathy showed you
it's been T it's over the past years
it's been hundreds of millions of
dollars to antio for most of these
companies what really matters to get
public a at IPO has increased while time
from founding to IPO has remained steady
at around 10 years a growth has slowed
recently as free cash flow has come into
s has come into view as interest rates
have risen you need some scale like we
said we think that's probably at least
400 million in ARR otherwise you need
extraordinarily good unit economics or
high Revenue growth and you should not
expect to be there you do not need to be
free Casal positive IPO but you need a
path for it you've got to be a rule of
40 company though at least and multiples
are now at historical Norms we're
talking about AR multiples no matter how
great you are no matter how great your
business is it's hard to trade at more
than 10 times ARR there aren't many
companies that do that in the public
market but that does mean you're worth
billions of dollars if you reach these
ARR
scales you have to be great and stand
above the crowd the market can only
absorb around 20 IPOs a year and so your
company has to be special enough to make
it in those 20 what matters for Success
after an IPO I will turn it back over to
Kathy to walk you through a few things
so now that your public what actually
matters after the IPO interestingly we
found that the absolute Revenue size is
not as important as you might think in
fact the key driver for lasting success
is long-term durable Revenue grows it's
about sustaining that growth over the
long period and not just about how fast
you're growing so let's explore what we
mean by this here we have a regression
that charts AR multiples today versus
the implied a scale of the most recently
reported quarter of 139 different
software
companies and I want to draw your
attention to the rord value of this
regression and by the way R squ is a
measurement of how strongly these two
variables on the two axes are correlated
on a scale of 0 to
one and so we see here that the RSW
value is 0.09 which is quite low so
there's essentially no correlation
between valuation multiples in today's
public markets and the size of the compy
next we'll look at two different
regressions that also demonstrate how
how durable growth and not fast growth
is the key ingredient to Market
appreciation on the left here we see a
regression that CHS the share price
appreciation from IPO to today vers is
how much revenue has increased in dollar
amounts from IPO to today and you'll see
here that the rord value is 0.74 which
is fight high and implying a strong
correlation between how much the share
price increases to how much the revenue
has now let's contrast this to the right
side now this charts the same y AIS but
on the x-axis you'll see Revenue growth
compound and annually and so the RS rate
here you can see it's much more
scattered is
0.03 and so from this we can take away
that investors are rewarding companies
that can maintain steady growth over a
long period of time and not just
companies that are growing really
quickly year-over year how do you grow
durably HubSpot is one of the great
examples of a company that utilizes
multi-product approach to enable pretty
significant Market appreciation here
we'll see a simple AR bridge for HubSpot
today on the left side we have in the
green bars from hubspot's main product
and marketing Hub which was the only
product to exist at IPO and was around
100 million of AR in 2014 in the middle
section you'll see red bars that Jo
incremental AR that hbot has added from
launching new products over the past
decade since
IPO now today helpspot is well over 2.5
billion in AR company that ipoed under
900 million of market cap value is now
worth well over $26 billion today so as
you can see house spot is a great case
setting for a company that utilize this
multiproduct approach in order to
increase their n retention over
time and they had added essentially 11
billion of additional market cap value
that wouldn't exist if it weren't for
these new products
awesome thank you
Kathy she talked a lot about how the
actual growth rate in the public markets
isn't related to your returns it's about
growing durably over time Pub spot's a
great example of the different ways in
which you can grow durably including
adding more products to your site
selling more you also increase net
dollar attention and their valuation
multile has also come up significantly
over time I'm going to walk you through
a couple examples here of durable growth
we have crowd strike which as many
people know is one of the leading
endpoint security companies they've been
in the news but they've done
exceptionally well as a public company
we went and plotted their ending ARR
from 2019 to today when they went public
they were about 500 million of ARR
growing at a Almost 100% year-over-year
very impressive high growth business
they've continued on a very high growth
rate through 2024 and have been growing
at a 50% almost a 50% a growth kager
since going public in 2019 and they're
approaching $4 billion now we have a
example on the other side of the
spectrum a company called SPS Commerce
which is in the supply chain space this
is also very unique and impressive
company and we use this durable grower
example because they've been doing it in
a much slower way and while crowd strike
was growing at 100% multiple years in a
row up to 500 million of ARR SPS
Commerce went public in
2010 at around 50 million of ARR and for
15 years they've grown their AR r at a
20% ker this is the power of compounding
they never actually grew faster than 35%
in a single year while crowd strike was
growing at 100% multiple years in a row
so we wanted to show these examples
because durable growth and not just high
growth is most important for long-term
returns in the public markets so we put
crowd strike and SPS Commerce next to
each other and plotted and and showed
you a table with some of their metrics
crowd strike's been public for 6 years
SPS for 15 years implied aard IPO crowd
strike was much bigger when they went
public SPS commerce was only 50 million
again as Cathy showed 15 years ago
companies were going public at smaller
scale crowd strike is much bigger than
SPS today at almost 4 billion SPS is
about 600 million of ARR and you can see
they've been growing in very different
Revenue kares 50% to about 20%
and look at the bottom in red this is
the share price multiple of invested
Capital since IPO crowd strike is
obvious seeing huge returns they're up
8X since
2019 look at SPS Commerce they're up 17x
from when they went public in
2010 this is a great example and the
power of compounding and the power of
durable growth met is the key ingredient
to share price returns in the public
marus
here is another very important fact
pattern that public companies SAS
companies need to implore predictability
the classic beat and
raise SAS public SAS companies typically
beat consensus estimates and raise
guidance for the subsequent quarter
which signals strong business momentum
and
predictability we went back and looked
at results versus consensus and
irrespective of all market conditions
80% of the time SAS company are be are
beating current quarter guidance and
raising the subsequent quarter guidance
so if you want to be a public company
you need a predictable business so that
you can show the street you can
continually be your numbers so what are
some key takeaways after you go public
you've probably grown into a business
that's multi hundred millions of AR
you're public now and what really
matters your absolute scale at least
today is irrelevant for valuation
multiple Kathy showed you there is no
relationship between Act ual size of
Revenue or ar and your valuation
multiple durable long-term Revenue
growth matters it's about time in market
and not Market timey you you also can't
grow durably without strong unit
economics successful multi-product
strategies as we showed you with HubSpot
can grow your Tam and increase
efficiency over time and the absolute
pace of Revenue growth or Revenue Kar
compound annual growth rate since IPO
has little to no relationship to share
price returns it's all about growth
durability and you have to be raise your
business must be predictable you have to
tell investors that you're not only
going to say you're not only going to do
what you say you do you have to do
better than that consistently over time
we walked you through a lot of graphs a
lot of numbers today and want to leave
you with some key takeaways what really
matters Here's the final word from us
here at
maritech to get public you have to have
it all you need a great story team
growth and efficiency End Market
predictability and a great business
reason to do it it's very hard work it
takes at least a year before you even
say you want to go IPO if you can to do
it it's an inordinate amount of
work and only 20 SAS companies per year
can actually make it public we don't
think this number is going to go higher
than this anytime soon and so you need
to ask yourself why do Public Market
investors have to own my stock there's
100 plus other great SAS companies that
are already public you need to have a
compelling story as to why they're going
to buy your stock over someone
else's we also think you need to
probably be at least 400 million of AR
otherwise you've got to be a super fast
grower probably at least 50 to 60% a
year or highly profitable and you have
to be at least a rule of 40 company
which is the sum of your Revenue growth
and free cash flow margin and regardless
of private Market valuation at least in
today's interest rate environment
companies cannot expect to be worth more
than 10 times ARR and the Down Round IPO
is actually irrelevant over the long
term you've seen companies like SPS
Commerce that are up almost 20x from
when they went public because they grew
durably over time back to my next Point
need to grow durably and predictably and
beat your Revenue
guidance and
lastly if you have it all you can see
massive returns in the public markets we
talked you about crowd strike which is
up over 8X since they went public SPS
Commerce is up almost 20x since they
went public Salesforce is up 100x since
they went public in their IPO 20 years
ago so if you can do all these things
and grow durably you can see incredible
returns as a public company
and lastly maritech we are a late stage
Venture and growth firm we've had over
60 IPOs we spent a lot of time thinking
about software metrics and here on our
website we have the largest free
repository of public software
information if you're interested in
checking that out thank you so much